# Data Security Agreement (Hereinafter referred to as "this Agreement")
---

[English Version of the Agreement](security-en.md)

This Agreement is a valid contract with binding force, jointly concluded by Shanghai Guance Future Information Technology Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as "<<< custom_key.brand_name >>>"), the operator of <<< custom_key.brand_name >>>, and the user (hereinafter referred to as "you"). <<< custom_key.brand_name >>> provides the products and services displayed on this website (hereinafter referred to as "this Service" / "this Product") to users, and will continuously update the service content. The latest service is based on the product and service introduction pages displayed on this website and the actual services provided to users.

You confirm: Before using this service, you have fully read, understood, and accepted all the contents of this Agreement (especially the content marked in bold and/or underlined). Once you choose "agree" and use this service, it means that you agree to abide by all the provisions of this Agreement.

Please note: Using this product or function will transmit your business data to the region or deployment region you have chosen, which may involve cross-border data transmission. You agree and confirm that you fully own all disposal rights for this business data and are fully responsible for the data transmission behavior. You should ensure that your data transmission complies with all applicable laws, including providing adequate data security protection technologies and strategies, fulfilling legal obligations such as obtaining explicit consent from individuals, completing data outbound security assessments and declarations, etc., and you promise that your business data does not contain any content restricted or prohibited by applicable laws from being transmitted or disclosed. If you do not comply with the aforementioned statements and guarantees, you will bear the corresponding legal consequences, and if <<< custom_key.brand_name >>> or other related companies suffer any losses as a result, you shall bear the responsibility for compensation.

## Disclaimer

**For the needs of using certain features of <<< custom_key.brand_name >>>, <<< custom_key.brand_name >>> will explicitly indicate or suggest you provide accounts/API keys within the corresponding permission scope. If you ultimately provide accounts/API keys exceeding the aforementioned permissions, all consequences (including but not limited to data exposure, tampering, etc.) will be borne by you, and <<< custom_key.brand_name >>> will not bear any legal liability.**

**You confirm: Before using the corresponding features of <<< custom_key.brand_name >>>, <<< custom_key.brand_name >>> has provided you with sufficient prompts and clear explanations regarding the above disclaimer. Based on these prompts and explanations, you have confirmed that the clearly marked parts in the above terms are clauses that exempt or limit the liability of <<< custom_key.brand_name >>>, and you fully understand and have no objections to the aforementioned content.**

**The final interpretation right of this product's agreement belongs to Shanghai Guance Future Information Technology Co., Ltd. The validity, interpretation, amendment, execution, and dispute resolution of the terms of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the People's Republic of China. Any disputes arising from this Agreement shall be handled in accordance with the laws of the People's Republic of China and submitted to the Pudong New Area People's Court of Shanghai for trial.**