---
icon: zy/monitoring
---
# Monitor
---

Guance has powerful anomaly monitoring capability, which not only provides a series of monitoring templates including Docker, Elasticsearch, Host, but also supports custom monitors. With the alarm notification function, it can find problems in time to help you quickly find, locate and solve problems. At the same time, Guance supports SLO (Service Level Objective) monitoring, and accurately controls service levels and targets.

## Monitor
(Originally referred to as "anomaly detection rules") Guance provides a variety of monitoring methods such as "threshold detection" and "log detection", allowing users to customize the configuration of detection rules and trigger conditions, and receive alarm notifications at the first time through alarms.

- [Threshold detedction](monitor/threshold-detection.md): Anomaly detection is carried out on the metric data based on the set threshold value, and when the data reaches the threshold value, an alarm is triggered and the user is notified.
- [Log detection](monitor/log-detection.md): Anomaly detection based on log data in workspace is mostly suitable for code anomaly or task scheduling detection in IT monitoring scenarios.
- [Mutation detection](monitor/mutation-detection.md): Based on comparing the absolute or relative (%) changes of the same metric in two different time periods, it is judged whether an abnormal situation occurs. Most of them are used to track the peak value or data change of a certain metric, and when abnormal situations occur, events can be generated more accurately and kept for records.
- [Interval detection](monitor/interval-detection.md): Anomaly detection is done based on the metric data within the selected detection interval time range, which is mostly used to monitor the data/metrics with stable trend.
- [outlier detection](monitor/outlier-detection.md): Based on the algorithm to detect whether there is outlier deviation in the metric/statistical data of the detected objects under a specific grouping.
- [Security check](monitor/security_checker.md): Anomaly detection based on security detection data in workspace, which is used to monitor loopholes, anomalies and risks in systems, containers and networks in workspace.
- [Application pergormance  metric detection](monitor/application-performance-detection.md): Based on the metric data of "application performance monitoring" in the workspace, an alarm is triggered when the metric reaches the set threshold range.
- [Real user metric detection](monitor/real-user-detection.md): Based on the metric data of "user access monitoring" in the workspace, an alarm is triggered when the metric reaches the set threshold range.
- [Process anomaly detection](monitor/processes-detection.md): Used to monitor process data in the workspace, supports setting trigger alarms for one or more field types of process data.
- [Infrastructure survival detection](monitor/infrastructure-detection.md): Used to monitor the operational status of infrastructure.
- [Usabilty monitoring data detection](monitor/usability-detection.md): Based on the cloud dialing test data in the workspace, an alarm is triggered by setting a threshold range for the specified data amount generated by dialing test tasks in a certain period of time.
- [Network data detection](monitor/network-detection.md): It is used to monitor the metric data of "network performance monitoring" in the workspace. By setting the threshold range, an alarm is triggered when the metric reaches the threshold.

## Template
(Originally referred to as "inner detection library"), Guance has inner a variety of out-of-the-box monitoring templates, which support one-click creation of Docker, Elasticsearch, Host, Redis monitoring. After successfully creating a new template, the corresponding official monitor will be automatically added to the current workspace. Please refer to the document [template](template.md).

## Alarm Policy Management
(Formerly referred to as "grouping"), the alarm policy function supports you to customize and create meaningful monitor combinations, which is convenient for alarm policy management of various monitors.

## SLO
(Service Level Objective) is the abbreviation of service level goal, that is, the preset system stability goal. Guance supports testing the current system service status level, and compares and detects whether the corresponding SLI (Service Level Indicator is the measurement metric, which corresponds to the metric measured by the monitor) meets the target needs.

## Intelligent Check

Intelligent check is based on the intelligent check algorithm of observation cloud, which supports automatic check of infrastructure and application problems, helps users find problems occurring during the operation of IT systems, and quickly locates the causes of abnormal problems through root cause analysis; Through the intelligent prediction algorithm of Guance, users can foresee the potential problems of infrastructure and applications in advance, evaluate the impact level of problems on system operation, better determine the priority of troubleshooting work, and reduce the uncertainty of troubleshooting process. For details, please refer to [intelligent check](bot-obs/index.md).

## Silent Management
"Silence management" is to manage all silence rules in the current space. It supports silent management of different monitors, intelligent check, self-built check, SLO and alarm policies, so that silent objects do not send alarm notifications to any alarm notification objects during silent time. Please refer to silent management [silent management](silent-management.md).

## Notification Object Management
Guance supports you to set notification objects of alarm events through "Management"-"Notification Object Management", including Dingding robot, enterprise WeChat robot, flying book robot, Webhook customization, mail group and SMS group. Refer to [notify object management](notify-object.md).



