# Release History

## 1.101.187 (December 25, 2024) {#1.101.187}

pubrepo.guance.com/dataflux/1.101.187:launcher-bd04e6c-1735636678

### Offline Image Package Download

- AMD64 Architecture Download: https://static.<<< custom_key.brand_main_domain >>>/dataflux/package/guance-amd64-1.101.187.tar.gz
    - MD5: `0de09e506f59ff2b5761674137f365f9`

- ARM64 Architecture Download: https://static.<<< custom_key.brand_main_domain >>>/dataflux/package/guance-arm64-1.101.187.tar.gz
    - MD5: `52e23a474a8247287c0c6ad8309cf666`

### Deployment Plan Updates {#deployment1225}

#### Launcher Updates

1. Kubernetes Operation History

    - All changes to Kubernetes now support version history for traceability and management.

2. New Workload Management Features

    - Support adjusting the number of Workload replicas.
    - Support modifying the Workload image address.
    - Support configuring resource limits (Limit), taints (Taint), affinity (Affinity), etc., for Workloads.
    - Support rolling back Workloads to historical versions with version difference comparison.

3. Launcher Service Management

    - Added functionality to directly shut down Launcher services from the Launcher interface.

4. Registry Key Configuration Synchronization

    - After modifying the Registry Key configuration, it will automatically update the pre-configured `registry-key` Secret in Kubernetes.

5. Enhanced Deployment Security

    - During new deployments, the backend admin account password must be manually entered during the installation information collection phase to ensure security.

6. UI Optimization

    - Added icons to all function menus to enhance visual effects and improve user experience.

#### Feature Updates

1. Deployment Plan supports [customizing navigation bar and operation button text](../../deployment/customize-frontend-languge.md).

2. Backend Member Menu Optimization:

    - Added a "Login Type" column to distinguish between default login members and SSO login members and supports filtering by login type;
    - For SSO login members, added the ability to edit the "Other Attributes" field, allowing customization of attribute information. This information is synchronized to Webhook external notifications and corresponding event content areas when sending alerts.

3. Main storage engine for workspaces using Volcano Engine: Storage policies for tracing, logs, and custom log indexes have been adjusted to Standard Storage, Low-Frequency Storage, and Archive Storage, which can be configured separately for hot data, low-frequency data, and archive data storage durations. Additionally, when creating new indexes in <<< custom_key.brand_name >>> console with Volcano Engine as the main storage engine, the storage policy is also synchronized to Standard Storage, Low-Frequency Storage, and Archive Storage.

### OpenAPI Updates {#openapi1225}

1. Resource Catalog: Supports obtaining a list of resource catalogs, and supports [creating](../../open-api/objc-set/create.md)/[modifying](../../open-api/objc-set/modify.md)/[deleting](../../open-api/objc-set/delete.md)/[exporting](../../open-api/objc-set/export.md) resource viewers.
2. Generated Metrics: Supports listing metric sets and supports [creating](../../open-api/aggs-to-metric/add.md)/[modifying](../../open-api/aggs-to-metric/modify.md)/[enabling/disabling](../../open-api/aggs-to-metric/set-disable.md)/[deleting](../../open-api/aggs-to-metric/delete.md) metrics.

### Feature Updates {#feature1225}

#### Pipeline

Automatic [Pipeline](../../pipeline/index.md) Writing: Traditional log parsing methods often rely on familiarity with rules for manual script writing, which not only consumes a lot of time but also easily leads to errors, resulting in inefficient Pipeline creation that cannot promptly respond to and resolve problems. To improve efficiency and reduce labor costs, this feature leverages large models' natural language processing capabilities to assist in automating log content parsing, helping developers write Pipelines more efficiently and accurately extract valuable information from large volumes of logs, simplifying data flows and processing procedures.

#### Monitoring

AI Alert Compression and Merging: Through large models, compress and merge monitoring alert events to reduce redundancy, especially when systems generate a large number of alerts in a short period. By consolidating alert events, ensure that operators receive only one comprehensive alert message within a specified time cycle (such as 10 minutes), rather than multiple duplicate alert messages.

#### Cloud Billing Analysis

Cloud billing scenario view, Explorer adds currency category display for consumption.

#### Scenarios

1. Dashboards, built-in views add [ID labels](../../scene/dashboard/index.md#id): Dashboards and user views can be uniquely identified via ID labels. When configuring jump links in charts, you can locate dashboards or user views through the ID label.
2. Adjusted [automatic refresh](../../getting-started/function-details/explorer-search.md#refresh) logic for Explorers: Removed the "pause" button in the time component and added an "off" option in the refresh frequency options. Users can disable automatic refresh as needed, making operations simpler and more intuitive. At the same time, removed the "Explorer Auto Refresh" switch in personal settings to avoid redundant features and optimize the user settings experience.
3. Added function `MD5()` to Explorers, supporting querying desensitized log data encrypted with MD5.
4. Chart Optimization: Charts now support using PromQL metric names as legends with `{__name__}` configuration to display metric names as aliases.
5. PromQL Editor adds syntax highlighting and syntax prompts.

#### Metrics

[Generate Metrics](../../metrics/generate-metrics.md) Optimization:

1. Consolidated all types of generated metrics under the Metrics directory for easier viewing and management by users.
2. Supported re-aggregation operations on existing metric data to generate new metrics, providing more dimensions for data analysis.

#### Management

Optimized sensitive data viewing desensitization rule application for data access: Optimized multi-rule multi-role combination overlay data viewing scope. If a member has multiple roles, the final data access scope takes the union of the defined scopes within the rules. The desensitization rules for sensitive data viewing follow the same principle.

#### Infrastructure

Resource Catalog [cross-workspace queries](../../infrastructure/custom/index.md#cross_workspace): In the Resource Catalog menu, cross-workspace query of resource list data is supported.

### New Integrations {#inte1225}

- Added [Volcano Engine ALB](../../integrations/volcengine_alb.md) integration;
- Added [Volcano Engine CLB](../../integrations/volcengine_clb.md) integration;
- Added [Volcano Engine NAS](../../integrations/volcengine_nas.md) integration;
- Added [Kube State Metrics](../../integrations/kube_state_metrics.md) integration;
- Added [Ranger Admin](../../integrations/ranger_admin.md) integration;
- Added [Ranger Tagsync](../../integrations/ranger_tagsync.md) integration;
- Added [Ranger Usersync](../../integrations/ranger_usersync.md) integration;
- Updated Redis dashboard and monitors;
- Updated [nginx](../../integrations/nginx.md) integration & dashboard;
- Updated RabbitMQ dashboard and monitors.

### Bug Fixes {#bug1225}

1. Fixed the issue of host tags not taking effect;
2. Fixed the failure to update tokens in the console;
3. Fixed the loss of sorting due to refresh operations in composite dashboards;
4. Fixed the lack of data display in table charts in shared dashboards when editing mode is active;
5. Fixed the issue of backend requests not being sent when switching different charts in combined charts in cross-space authorized query dashboards;
6. Fixed the abnormal `version` data in RUM views;
7. Fixed the issue of internal Func prompts not finding accounts and reporting 404 errors without generating events;
8. Fixed the issue of 0 displayed data in the availability monitoring list;
9. Fixed the UI display issue at the bottom of the AI intelligent assistant page;
10. Fixed the issue of resource catalog resources still existing after successful deletion.
11. Fixed false alarms caused by data interruptions.

For more details, refer to the help documentation: https://docs.guance.com/release-notes/

## 1.100.185 (December 11, 2024) {#1.100.185}

pubrepo.guance.com/dataflux/1.100.185:launcher-d8e4c42-1734341625

### Offline Image Package Download

- AMD64 Architecture Download: https://static.<<< custom_key.brand_main_domain >>>/dataflux/package/guance-amd64-1.100.185.tar.gz
    - MD5: `711b90a43b1e0c5e944d7210cc2edbce`

- ARM64 Architecture Download: https://static.<<< custom_key.brand_main_domain >>>/dataflux/package/guance-arm64-1.100.185.tar.gz
    - MD5: `9fdc1001c8e90d380567bc74d6aec585`

### <<< custom_key.brand_name >>> Deployment Plan Updates {#onpremise1211}

1. In Launcher, modifying the Registry Key configuration will update the corresponding registry-key configuration in k8s in real-time.

### Feature Updates {#feature1211}

#### Scenarios

1. [Topology Map](../../scene/visual-chart/topology-map.md) adds external data queries: Allows users to visualize topology maps using external data through DataFlux Func. Users only need to connect data according to the chart structure to easily achieve visualization of external data.
2. [Charts](../../scene/visual-chart/index.md#type) Optimization
    - Chart Display Effect Optimization: Optimized the display effect of charts, changed to side-sliding lists, categorized displays, making it easier to find and use charts.
    - Chart Description and Use Cases Display: Added chart description and use cases display in the chart list, helping users better understand and choose suitable chart types.
3. View Variable Optimization
    - View variables support setting upper limits for listed values, avoiding performance issues caused by too many listed items.
    - Default upper limit for deployment plans is 50, supporting customizable default listing quantities. Note: Page configuration limits take precedence over global limits.

#### Infrastructure

1. Resource Catalog Optimization:
    - Added grouping functionality: To improve resource management efficiency, added resource grouping functionality. Users can group resources with common characteristics for easier management and viewing, thus optimizing resource organization.
    - Honeycomb Mode Optimization for Viewers: Supports configuring fields for "color fill" and "group analysis," allowing users to customize optional fields as needed.
2. Container and Resource Catalog Viewer Search Optimization: Added `container_name` search for container viewers and `name` search for resource catalog entries.

#### Monitoring

Alert Strategy Configuration Optimization

- Supports creating associated monitors [with one click](../../monitoring/alert-setting.md#with_monitor), adding a unified alert notification management model centered around alert strategies.
- Improved interaction for related display in alert strategy lists.

#### RUM

RUM added support for React Native app types and allows uploading SourceMap for data parsing and restoration. If you need to upload SourceMap for previously created React Native apps under Android / iOS types, note:

1. When creating a new app, select the "React Native" app type. You can copy the name and app ID from existing React Native apps under Android / iOS types, then click "Create." After creation, you can configure SourceMap for this app. This change only affects the creation method of React Native apps and does not impact data collection.

2. If your existing React Native apps under Android / iOS types have associated monitors and you haven't recreated them with the same ID under the "React Native" type, the original monitors can continue to work normally. However, if you have recreated "React Native" type apps, the "App Name" item in the original monitors will not retrieve data and will show as empty. In this case, you need to select the "React Native" app type and save the monitor again.

#### APM

APM installation guidance added [auto-injection](../../application-performance-monitoring/explorer/auto_wire/apm_datakit_operator.md): In the APM (APM) installation guide, added an automatic injection installation method using the Kubernetes Operator. This method simplifies the APM deployment process, enabling users to install and use it faster in Kubernetes environments.


### New Integrations {#inte1211}

- Added [HBASE Region](../../integrations/hbase_region.md) integration;
- Added [HBASE Master](../../integrations/hbase_master.md) integration;
- Optimized [NodeExporter](../../integrations/node-exporter.md) integration view;
- Added [Huawei Cloud DCAAS Direct Connect](../../integrations/huawei_dcaas.md) integration;
- Adjusted K8S dashboard;
- Updated [memcached](../../integrations/memcached.md) view and monitor;
- Updated [rabbitmq](../../integrations/rabbitmq.md) view and monitor.

### Bug Fixes {#bug1211}

1. Fixed expression query numerical anomalies;
2. Fixed the issue where data could be seen in time series graphs but not in chart queries when querying CPU usage rates for pods started at a specific moment using PromQL.
3. Fixed the issue of alerts not recovering.
4. Fixed PromQL query result anomalies.
5. Fixed the error `warmretention` field missing when modifying hot storage duration in private deployment > backend management.
6. Fixed inconsistencies between log search results in deployment plan and TLS search results on Volcano Engine.
7. Fixed random scaling when embedding dashboard screens into user IFrame pages.
8. Fixed page freezing when adding a new group to multiple spaces in user management.
9. Fixed the error `df_fault_id` upon first entry into <<< custom_key.brand_name >>> console > events.
10. Fixed memory limit exceeded warnings when opening the events menu.
11. Fixed summary chart expression calculation errors.
12. Fixed the issue of no events being generated after monitor triggers an alert.
13. Fixed the anomaly in the bottom log query function of deployment plan Volcano Engine.

For more details, refer to the help documentation: https://docs.guance.com/release-notes/

## 1.99.184 (December 5, 2024) {#1.99.184}

pubrepo.guance.com/dataflux/1.99.184:launcher-71d4565-1733376363

### Offline Image Package Download

- AMD64 Architecture Download: https://static.<<< custom_key.brand_main_domain >>>/dataflux/package/guance-amd64-1.99.184.tar.gz
    - MD5: `d7f759b7b25a1d50c721608f113588c7`

- ARM64 Architecture Download: https://static.<<< custom_key.brand_main_domain >>>/dataflux/package/guance-arm64-1.99.184.tar.gz
    - MD5: `b6547a872bbf81bff77255d355ec77d5`

This version is a fix version with the following updates:

### <<< custom_key.brand_name >>> Deployment Plan Updates

- Fixed database schema upgrade failures during upgrades.

...

(Note: Due to the length of the document, the translation continues in the next response.)