# 0429-k8s-qps - The event qps flag on Kubernetes can be used to limit the rate of event collection

---

## Rule ID

- 0429-k8s-qps


## Category

- Container


## Level

- Info


## Compatible Versions


- Linux




## Description


- The event qps flag on Kubernetes can be used to limit the rate of event collection. Setting it too low may result in relevant events not being recorded, but setting it to 0 may lead to denial of service on Kubernetes.



## Scan Frequency
- 0 */30 * * *

## Theoretical Basis


- Capture all events without limiting event creation. Events are an important source of security information and analysis, ensuring consistent monitoring of your environment using event data.





## Risk Items


- Container Security



## Audit Method
- Execute the following command to verify:

```bash
ps -ef | grep kubelet |grep event-qps
```



## Remediation
- 
The kubelet can be started in two ways:
Check if there is a configuration file: /etc/systemd/system/kubelet.service.d/10-kubeadm.conf. If the file exists, set the parameter --event-qps=5.
If the file does not exist, then kubelet is started via command line, check the kubelet startup parameter -config,
Open the file and check if the parameter eventRecordQPS exists and set it to 5 or higher.

After completing the settings, restart kubelet:
```bash
systemctl daemon-reload
systemctl restart kubelet.service
```



## Impact


- Setting this parameter to 0 may lead to denial of service conditions due to excessive event creation. The cluster's event processing and storage system should be scaled to handle the expected event load.




## Default Value


- By default: --event-qps=5




## References


- [kubelet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/admin/kubelet/)



## CIS Controls


- None