# Product Introduction
---

Guance is a cloud service platform aimed at solving cloud computing and building **full-link observability** for every complete application in the cloud native era system. Guance, a product fully built by Zhuyun Tethnology since 2018, aims to provide services for the majority of **cloud-based development project teams** in China. Compared to complex and variable open source products such as ELK, Prometheus, Grafana, Skywalkin, Guance does not simply provide a monitoring product, but more importantly, to provide overall observability services. In addition to the integration of the **underlying storage and system architecture**, we also provide a complete analysis and deconstruction of all cloud computing and cloud-native related technology stacks, so that any project team can easily use our products without having to invest too much effort in research or transformation of immature open source products. At the same time, Guance adopts a service-based, on-demand, volume-based method to charging fees, based entirely on the amount of data generated by users, without the need to invest in hardware, while for paying clients, we would also establish a professional service team to help clients build a **data-based core assurance system**.
## Unified Storage
Guance adopts a **unified storage** solution with a multimode data lake form at the bottom. We store data structures such as time series, logs, objects, links and events in a unified manner to achieve **consistent, efficient and low-latency** writing through a **unified** Dataway interface via Line Protocol and query and analize via Dubug Query Language (DQL).
## Powerful and Secure Data Collection Solution
We provide a self-developed powerful data collection terminal DataKit, which integrates comprehensive data collection capabilities, including hosts (cloud hosts), containers, processes, middleware, databases, message queues, applications developed in various languages, network access performance, black box dialing and security patrol. At the same time, we are also **compatible** with the mainstream open source data collection solutions, achieving rapid integration with Datakit, such as Prometheus and Telegraf. Compared with these solutions, in addition to being able to collect the corresponding technology stack of the corresponding metrics dat and log data, the most powerful part is that it can effectively **build a unified relationship between all the data**, so that users can quickly find the correlation between metrics.
## Full Link Observability
Based on the powerful data collection capability, Guance has built a full chain of observability from infrastructure, containers, middleware, databases, message queues, application links, front-end access, system security and network access performance. Based on our standard products, users can quickly **achieve the complete observability** of their projects after properly configuring Datakit. Based on the Line Protocol and our scenario building capabilities, users can also customize the metrics they need to observe to easily integrate them together for further observability.
## User-friendly Interface
As a complete technical product oriented to observability, Guance has a lot of technical thresholds. Compared with various open source solutions, we have been very strong in adjusting how to effectively reduce the learning cost and improve the user-friendliness of the product from the very beginning. Therefore, from the installation and deployment of DataKit and other configurable capabilities, Guance has chosen to **reduce the difficulty of user configuration as much as possible** to meet the habits of most programmers and operation and maintenance engineers, while improving **the ease of use and professionalism of UI**, so that users can quickly understand the product.
## Powerful Technology
In the whole building process of Guance, we have accumulated a **strong technical system and technical strength**. In addition to the very high-performance and fully cross-platform Datakit, DataWay with powerful data processing capabilities, DQL with autonomous query language, the self-developed log text data batch processing script pipeline and the scripting model Scheck for complete security inspection, we have built DataFlux Func, a powerful algorithm development platform.
## Service Based
As a Devops-oriented product that helps project teams build complete observability, we will provide our commercial customers with a full range of services in addition to the capabilities of the product itself, providing **each customer with a technical service team** to assist each commercial customer, whether a programmer, a test engineer or an O&M engineer, in the process of using effectively reap the **real benefits** of using Guance.
