# Release Notes (2023)
---


## December 28, 2023

### Guance Updates

- Monitoring:
    - **RUM Intelligent Detection** was online: Supported performance anomalies and error analysis of websites PPs, related detection metrics are LCP, FID, CLS, etc.;
    - **Infrastructure Survival Detection V2**: Added Infrastructure Survival V2 version, optimized detection logic, solved several trigger problems related to V1 and process detection.
- RUM:
    - New **Public DataWay** to receive RUM data, no installation of collectors required; Web-type applications support direct upload of SourceMap in the console, supported uploading multiple files based on different versions and environments.
    - **Error Explorer > Error Details**: Added **Formatted** error information page, displayed the error information after Sourcemap file parsing, supported switching to view formatted and original format error information. If the Sourcemap file is not configured or not matched after upload, only the original format error information will be displayed.
- APM:
    - Optimized **Service Topology Chart**: Adjusted the display style of upstream and downstream, nodes, service names, etc.;
    - Optimized **Service Details**: Bound performance view dashboard to display current service performance metrics, also supported customizing the same name user view to cover updates, supported drilling analysis;
    - Optimized **Trace Details** Flame Graph, Waterfall Chart Display: Flame Graph added execution time and execution proportion display; Waterfall Chart supported relative time and absolute time switching display.
- Chart Optimization:
    - **Time Series Table Chart** added **Display Column** configuration: Supported user settings to query data display columns, and also supported user-defined column names; supported users to manually adjust column width in editing mode, and the list information was displayed according to the column width after saving; supported drag and drop to adjust the display column order;
    - Chart link added **Value Variable** for link jumping.
- Dashboard:
    - Dashboard added **Homepage Dashboard**: Supported workspace configuration homepage dashboard;
- Infrastructure:
    - Host Explorer added **Only Display Online Host** Switch Filter: Optimized the logic of obtaining the host online list, supported whether to list only the host list that has reported data in the last 10 minutes.

### Guance Deployment Plan Updates

- Supported external platform embedding Guance page, using parameters in URL to set hiding left and header menu bar was enabled, supported hiding floating operation;
- Supported external platforms embedding Guance Dashboard or Explorer page through iframe.

### Integration

- **Kubecost** was online.


## December 14, 2023

### Guance Updates

- Monitoring:
    - **Intelligent Monitoring** was online:
        - **Host Intelligent Detection**: Supported CPU surge/drop/range rise, memory surge/drop/range rise detection;
        - **Log Intelligent Detection**: Supported log quantity surge/drop, error log surge detection;
        - **Application Intelligent Detection**: Supported request quantity surge/drop, error request quantity surge, request delay surge/drop/range rise detection.
    - **Mutation Detection**: Added trigger rule prerequisite, when the detection value meets this condition, perform mutation detection rule to improve monitoring accuracy.
- Billing:
    - **Data Forwarding Usage Analysis** list was online: View all data forwarding rule forwarding quantities of the current workspace. If the forwarding rule is to the Guance backup log module, the corresponding saving strategy will be displayed. At the same time, supported time widget to filter the required data forwarding situation list, convenient for quick viewing of the overall situation of historical log backup.
- Events:
    - Added **Intelligent Monitoring** event explorer: all event information generated by intelligent monitoring.
- Logs:
    - **Data Access** added "Only Show Rules Related to Me" configuration: When turned on, only display access rules that affect the current account data query.
    - **Logs > Explorers**: Added data access rule limit prompt.
- Infrastructure > **Containers > Kubernetes**:
    - New Kubernetes Analysis Dashboard: Container analysis dashboard, helping you understand the status of various infrastructures in Kubernetes from different dimensions.
    - Containers > Explorers: Page UI optimization.
- Metrics:
    - **Metrics > Explorers**:
        - Table Chart added [Query Tool] mode: The return result is consistent with **Quick Access > Query Tool**; If multiple queries are added, the first query result is returned by default; This mode supported exporting up to 1000 query records.
        - New query condition **Copy** function, optimizing page experience.
        - Query component optimization: Simple query **by grouping** supported free drag and drop adjustment order.
- Explorers:
    - Adjusted all explorers, hid trend chart display in analysis mode.
- SSO:
    - Optimized SSO user workspace listing logic; fixed the problem of automatic logout due to lack of access rights.

### Guance Deployment Plan Updates

- **Alert Notification Independent Sending** Configuration was online: After turning on this configuration, when the alert strategy selects [Alert Not Aggregated] option, each event will send an alert notification, helping you manage alert notifications efficiently.
- New **Event Link Free Login View** Configuration: After turning on this configuration, all workspace-sent alert notifications built-in event association links can be visited without login.


### Integration

- Added **APISIX**;  
- Updated **Alibaba Cloud KafKa**;  
- Updated **Dameng**.

## November 30, 2023

### Guance Updates

- Monitoring: 
    - Create > Event Content > Insert Link: Supported automatic generation of jump links based on detection metrics; adjusting filter conditions and time range after inserting links was enabled; Supported customizing jump links.
    - **Alert Strategies**: Added "Intelligent Aggregation" mode, where you can group events generated within the grouping period based on "title" or "content", and each group will generate an alert notification.
- Management: 
    - The overall style of the module menu page has been optimized.
    - Added "**Attribute Claims**": With the fixed fields `organization` and `business`, it helps to quickly identify and perform linkage query globally.
    - Added "**Regular Expression**": You can switch to view the "Custom" and "Template Library" lists; It supported users to customize regular expression templates and apply them to "Snapshot Sharing" and "Data Access Rules".
    - **Tickets**: The ticket has been adjusted from "account level" to "workspace level", and all members can view all the tickets within the workspace; Added "All Tickets" list, "Submitter" and "My Tickets" list.
    - **Workspaces**: Added a risk confirmation prompt for the operation of dissolving the space; The "Description" function under the workspace has been handled for offline.
    - Data forwarding: Query and statistics adjustment optimization.   
        - Query side: Adjust the content display data range, by default display other data content except `time`; 
        - Some robustness optimizations have been made for the data forwarding function.
    - Logs:
        - **Data Access**:
            - New data desensitization rule, supporting configuration of multiple fields and application of multiple regular expressions;
            - Supported configuring all [Indexes] and [Roles];
            - New desensitization preview to judge if the rule can meet the requirements.
    - Snapshots > **Share**:
        - The validity period of the shared link is increased to 1, 3, and 7 days, with 1 day selected by default;
        - Data Desensitization: Supported the configuration of multiple fields and the application of multiple regular expressions;
        - Supported previewing snapshots, you can view all the configured page effects in advance.
    - RUM: The layout of the **Create** page has been adjusted to optimize the user experience.
    - Cluster Analysis:
        - **RUM > Error Explorer** & **APM > Error Tracking**: Cluster analysis mode is adjusted to `drain()` algorithm aggregation logic; new input box can modify cluster fields, default is `error_message`, up to 3 fields can be entered, or cluster fields can be customized as needed.

### Guance Deployment Plan Updates

- New support for customizing the text and Logo at the beginning and end of the email;
- Guance cancelled the setting of Banner information and no longer provided related support for maintaining Banner information.

### Integration

- Added **logstash**.

### Best Practices

- **Best Practices for Bidirectional Linking between Anomaly Tracking and JIRA**


## November 21, 2023

### Guance Updates

- Management: The **MFA Security Authentication** switch is added to the Settings page. Once the administrator/owner turns on this function, all users (regular members/SSO members) must complete MFA authentication before entering the space.

### Guance Deployment Plan Updates

- Added **MFA Security Authentication** switch, which supports authentication through system default or custom methods.

## November 16, 2023

### Guance Updates

- Monitors:
    - The Alert Mute function is back, and the interval of repeated alert notifications can still be defined by the alert silence configuration.
    - The restriction that one of the "critical", "error", "warning" trigger conditions must be configured has been removed, and now supports any configuration of critical, error, warning, no data, and information trigger conditions.
    - **Infrastructure Survival Monitoring**: Supported metrics configuration of infrastructure survival checks, and this mode can define survival check configurations with higher detection frequency.
- Scenes
    - Charts:
        - Advanced settings: The Original Interval parameter configuration is offline, the default configuration is adjusted to Auto Align, and it supports custom selection of the time interval of data under the default chart.
        - **Time Series Chart**: Display Density is adjusted to Maximum Return Point Number, the default value is 720, and it supports defining any integer between 2-1000.
        - Fixed the problem of alias function failure after PromQL linkage view variables.
    - **Service Management**:
        - Added built-in switch dropdown box, you can directly select the switch service here without returning to the list.
        - The POD page under the details page is offline.
        - Resource Call performance chart changes to combined chart display, optimizing page display experience.
- Management
    - **SSO Management**:
        - When users login through SSO, the workspace supports listing all authorized workspaces under the current Identity Provider ID; supported directly locating the target workspace through the Search function.
        - User SSO added Import/Export function, so as to quickly configure single sign-on configuration for multiple workspaces.
    - **Workspace Language**:
        - Adjusted the logic of the default display language of the console, it now follows the browser language display configuration by default.
        - When modifying the workspace language version, notifications such as events, alerts, and SMS will also use the modified language template.
- Event correlation exception tracking added linkage mark:
    - In the unrecovered event list, you can understand whether the current event is associated with a certain exception tracking through the **icon**.
    - Exception tracking: If there is event information associated with the creation of the sync monitor, you can quickly understand the number of associated events through the **icon**.
- Infrastructure > Host: Optimized the problem of inaccurate sorting of host explorer metrics data.
- Several optimizations of Pipeline user experience:
    - The selected column of the data source added a prompt for the Pipeline script that has been configured;
    - Log data acquisition test sample added "index" selection, solving the problem that users did not use the default index to get sample data.

### Guance Deployment Plan Updates

- Single sign-on: Supported user accounts to dynamically append mobile phone information based on the returned user information when logging in through OIDC.

### Integration

- Added **argocd**, **fluentd**, **redis-sentinel**.

## November 9, 2023

### Guance Updates

- Monitors > **Alert Strategies**:
    - Notification configuration: The logic has been changed to configure one or more notifications for a single anomaly level.
    - Notification logic change: When the historical sent anomaly alert event is recovered, Guance will send recovery notifications to the corresponding notification targets.
    - Added **Alert Aggregation**: Supported configuring alert notification aggregation based on rules, there are two ways of aggregation:
        - No aggregation: In this mode, it merges into one alert notification sent to the corresponding notification object every 20 seconds;
        - Rule aggregation: You can choose four types of aggregation rules and send alert notifications based on the aggregation cycle.
    - Added Aggregation Cycle: In the mode of rule aggregation, newly added events within 1-30 minutes will be aggregated into notifications and sent, and newly added events beyond the aggregation cycle will be aggregated into new alert notifications.
- Management > **Data Forwarding**: Supported custom time range query, you can select multiple dates and define the start time and end time.

## November 2, 2023

### Guance Updates

- Management:
    - SSO Management: Supported **OIDC / Oauth2.0 protocol single sign-on configuration**;
    - **Data Permission Management**: Added Role when adding authorization, after configuring the role, the authorized workspace will determine the query access restriction and desensitization restriction of the data according to the selected role range when viewing the data.
- Data Forwarding:
    - The navigation position is adjusted to the Management module, and you can still enter Data Forwarding through the original Logs, RUM, APM navigation bar sub-menu;
    - **AWS S3** and **Alibaba Cloud OSS** support "Cross-account authorization" configuration, which implements data permission authorization between two accounts, simplifying the configuration process.
- Billing:
    - Supported data forwarding to the internal storage of Guance, and calculateed the size of the data stored in the Guance storage object in the workspace when billing every day;
- Event > **Unrecovered Events**:
    - Currently, the unrecovered event list stores event data within the past 24 hours;
    - Added display preference: Default display Standard mode, supports selecting Extended mode to open event detection result value history trend;
    - Supported exporting the current event list to CSV;
    - The event details page added **Extended Fields** Tab page; optimized the page of basic property Tab page.
- Infrastructure > **Network**:
    - Optimized the Overview template, added quick filter, users can filter and view network paths. Added 5 statistical charts, supported analyzing sending/receiving byte number, TCP retransmission and other network metrics information;
    - Added Network Flow explorer, you can view all L4(netflow), L7(httpflow) network flow data on the timeline;
    - Other explorer detail pages added Map mode display, you can directly view the network upstream and downstream relationship of the current object and some network key metrics.
- Scenes:
    - View Variable: Supported adding **PromQL query method**;
    - Charts:
        - For workspaces with Doris data storage, added Data Sampling;
        - Time auto alignment function optimization: For all metrics data and Doris data chart queries, when the time auto alignment function is turned on, the returned data time point will be aligned to "whole second/whole minute/whole hour";
        - Ranking, Overview, Table chart: Added Rule Mapping. Users can configure the corresponding font color/background color for data within the mapping value range.
    - Explorers: Analysis mode optimization, supported freely aggregating queries based on data, and displaying analysis in chart form;
    - Service Management > Resource Call: The resource leaderboard added Requests per Second option.
- Synthetic Tests > Task: Supported import, export.
- Doris log data engine temporarily does not support `with_labels` linkage query.

### Guance Deployment Plan Updates

- Supported custom configuration of account session expiration time, and set **login session time** uniformly for front-end users.


## October 19, 2023

### Guance Updates

- Billing: The billing item **Data Forward** is now calculated based on the Data Forwarding Rule and the size of the forwarded data.
- Management
    - **SSO Management**: Supported creating multiple SSO IDP configurations and enable/disable individual IDP configurations, and enable SAML mapping.
    - Data Rights Management > **Data Masking**: Supported configuring sensitive data masking rules at the role level, and allowed using regular expressions for masking. It also supported configuring masking rules for fields under a specific data type, and provides a preview and testing of the masking rules.
- Monitors: Added **Third-party Event Check**, which sends abnormal events or records generated by third-party systems to an HTTP server through a specified URL using the POST request method to generate Guance event data.
- Scenes
    - Service Management > Resource Call: Added quantity sorting for the corresponding list, with the default sorting order as descending.
    - Chart Links: Added the ability to pass the start time and end time of the currently selected data point as parameters, with the variables as `#{timestamp.start}` and `#{timestamp.end}` respectively.
    - Chart Alias: Configured based on the legend series.
    - Table Chart: Added Time table. 
- Metrics > Metrics Analysis: Added Group mode for table charts.



### Guance Deployment Plan Updates

- Added **custom mapping rule configuration**: After enabling this configuration, the corresponding workspace can have custom mapping rules. The custom mapping rules in the workspace have higher priority than the mapping rules in the management backend.
- Added **query limit**: Different workspaces for different users have customized limits on the number of queries. This prevents low query performance and affects the user experience due to querying large amounts of data.
- Added the ability to change passwords for local accounts.

### Integration Updates

- **Linking Abnormal Events with PagerDuty**: When our applications or systems encounter abnormalities, it is usually necessary to handle them promptly to ensure the normal operation of the system. In order to better manage and track these abnormal events, we can send these events to PagerDuty to create incidents. This allows us to track, analyze, and resolve these issues in PagerDuty, providing us with better capabilities to manage and track abnormal events, thereby ensuring the normal operation of the system. At the same time, this approach can also help us analyze and resolve problems better, improving the stability and reliability of the system.

## September 26, 2023

### Guance Updates

- Scenes > Service Management: A new component called "Upstream/Downstream Topology" has been added for resource calls, allowing users to view the upstream and downstream mapping relationships of the current resource.
- Logs > Data Forward: Data forwarding rule queries now support RUM and APM data.

## September 21, 2023


### Guance Updates

- Logs:
    - Data Forward: Added external storage forwarding rule data query; support enabling/disabling forwarding rules;
    - Bind index: Rizhiyi adds label binding to achieve more granular data range query authorization capabilities.
- Infrastructure > **Custom**: 
    - The concept of Default Fields has been changed to Required Fields: The reported data must include this property field, otherwise the report will fail;
    - Supported adding custom objects to the secondary menu for easier viewing.
    - Custom explorer added quick filters.
- Scenes:
    - **Regular Report**: Added three notification methods: DingTalk, WeCom and Lark;
    - Charts: Added data formats for Timeseries, Pie chart, Bar chart, Histogram, Scatter plot, Bubble chart, Table chart, Treemap, Funnel chart, Top list, Map, and Honeycomb. You can define decimal places and thousands separator.
- Monitors > **Notification Targets**: Email group type has been discontinued, existing ones are not affected.
- Snapshot > **Sharing**: Added IP whitelist access restriction.
- **Incidents**: Supported custom creation of Level; support enabling/disabling default levels.
- Integration > Extensions: DataFlux Func Automata and RUM Headless now support overseas sites: Oregon, Frankfurt, Singapore.


### Integration Updates

Huawei Cloud:

- **Huawei CCE**: Guance supported monitoring the running status and service capabilities of various resources in CCE, including Containers, Pods, Services, Deployments, Clusters, Nodes, Replica Sets, Jobs, Cron Jobs, etc. You can install DataKit in Kubernetes through DaemonSet to complete data collection of Kubernetes resources. Finally, monitor the running status of various Kubernetes resources in Guance in real time.

- **Huawei CSS(Elasticsearch)**: The core performance metrics of Huawei Cloud Search Service (CSS) for Elasticsearch include query latency, indexing speed, search speed, disk usage, and CPU usage. These are key metrics for evaluating and optimizing Elasticsearch performance.

- **Huawei SYS.AS**: The core performance metrics of Huawei SYS.AS include CPU utilization, memory usage, disk I/O, network throughput, and system load. These are key metrics for evaluating and optimizing the performance of the automatic scaling system.

- **Huawei ASM**: The trace data of Huawei Cloud's ASM is output to Guance for viewing and analysis.

AWS: 

- **AWS CloudFront**: The core performance metrics of AWS CloudFront include total requests, data transfer, HTTP error rate, cache hit rate, and latency. These can help users evaluate and optimize the performance of content delivery networks.

- **AWS MediaConvert**: AWS MediaConvert includes data transfer, video errors, number of jobs, padding, etc.

- **AWS Aurora Serverless V2**: AWS Aurora Serverless V2 includes connections, IOPS, queues, read and write latency, network throughput, etc.

- **AWS Redshift**: The core performance metrics of AWS Redshift include query performance, disk space usage, CPU utilization, database connections, and disk I/O operations. These are key metrics for evaluating and optimizing data warehouse performance.

- **AWS Simple Queue Service**: The display metrics of AWS Simple Queue Service include the approximate age of the oldest non-deleted message in the queue, the number of messages that are delayed and cannot be immediately read, the number of messages in flight, and the number of messages that can be retrieved from the queue, etc.

- **AWS Timestream**: The display metrics of AWS Timestream include the number of system errors (internal service errors), the sum of invalid requests for the current AWS region and AWS account, the time and sample count of successful requests, the amount of data stored in memory, and the amount of data stored in magnetic storage, etc.

- **AWS Neptune Cluster**: The display metrics of AWS Neptune Cluster include cold start time, execution time, concurrent executions, and memory usage. These metrics reflect the response speed, scalability, and resource utilization of Neptune Cluster functions.



## September 7, 2023

### Guance Updates

- Scenes > Dashboards/Explorers: Added global cross-workspace query configuration.
- Scene > Chart Query: When the time widget range is less than or equal to "Last 15 minutes", the automatic alignment time interval will now display "1 second".
- Scene > Service Management:
    - Added multiple inner views binding to the analysis dashboard in the service list; add association and team information;
    - Added resource invocation analysis dashboard;
    - Supported saving snapshots.
- Logs > Backup Logs:
    - Officially changed to **Data Forward**;
    - Added link and user access data source;
    - The original backup log billing item name has been changed to data forward billing item.
- Logs > Explorer: Added entry to create monitors; supported snapshot saving for explorer details page.
- Management:
    - **Global Tags**: Added global tags feature for unified tag management;
    - **Fields**: Added aliases and set display columns;
    - **Workspaces**: Function integration and page optimization;
    - Member Management: Officially changed the definition of member groups to teams;
    - Sensitive Data Scanning: Added scan rule count statistics; add jump link.
- Monitoring:
    - Synthetic Tests Detection: Added probe metrics for detection based on the metric dimension;
    - Mutation, Outlier, Interval Detection: Supported selecting all data sources.

### Integration Updates

Alibaba Cloud:

- **aliyun_analyticdb_postgresql**: Alibaba Cloud AnalyticDB PostgreSQL metrics display, including CPU, memory, disk, coordinating node, instance query, etc.
- **aliyun_clickhouse_community**: Alibaba Cloud ClickHouse metrics display, including service status, log flow, operation count, overall QPS, etc.
- **aliyun_kafka**: Alibaba Cloud `Kafka` includes message throughput, latency, concurrent connections, and reliability, which reflect the performance and reliability of Kafka in handling large-scale message transmission and real-time data streams.
- **aliyun_lindorm**: Includes high throughput, low latency data read and write capabilities, support for high-concurrency transaction processing, as well as strong consistency and high reliability data storage and query services.
- **aliyun_polardb_1.0**: Alibaba Cloud PolarDB distributed 1.0 display metrics include CPU utilization, memory utilization, network bandwidth, and disk IOPS.
- **aliyun_polardb_2.0**: Alibaba Cloud PolarDB distributed 2.0 display metrics for compute and storage nodes, including CPU utilization, connection utilization, disk usage, disk utilization, memory utilization, network bandwidth, etc.
- **aliyun_rds_postgresql**: Alibaba Cloud RDS PostgreSQL metrics display, including CPU usage, memory usage, etc.
- **aliyun_rocketmq5**: Alibaba Cloud RocketMQ 5.0 display metrics include message throughput, latency, reliability, and horizontal scalability.

AWS:

- **aws_dynamodb_DAX**: AWS DynamoDB DAX display metrics include CPU usage of nodes or clusters, bytes received or sent on all network interfaces, number of data packets, etc., which reflect the operating status of DynamoDB DAX.
- **aws_memorydb**: AWS MemoryDB core performance metrics include low-latency memory read and write capabilities, high-concurrency transaction processing capabilities, and scalable storage capacity and throughput.

Huawei Cloud:

- **huawei_functiongraph**: Huawei FunctionGraph display metrics include number of invocations, number of errors, number of rejections, concurrency, number of reserved instances, runtime (including maximum runtime, minimum runtime, average runtime), etc., which reflect the running status of FunctionGraph functions.
- **huawei_kafka**: Includes message throughput, latency, concurrent connections, and reliability, which reflect the performance and reliability of Kafka in handling large-scale message transmission and real-time data streams.
- **huaweiyun_SYS_DDMS**: 'Huawei Cloud SYS.DDMS monitoring view display metrics include message throughput, latency, concurrent connections, and reliability, which reflect the performance and reliability of DDMS in handling large-scale message transmission and real-time data streams.

Tencent Cloud:

- **tencent_keewidb**: Tencent Cloud KeeWiDB metrics display, including connections, requests, cache, keys, slow queries, etc.
- **tencent_mariadb**: Includes high-performance read and write capabilities, low-latency query response time, and support for high-concurrency transaction processing and scalability.
- **tencent_memcached**: Includes high-speed memory read and write capabilities, low-latency data access time, and high-concurrency access processing capabilities.
- **tencent_tdsql_c_mysql**: Includes high-throughput read and write capabilities, low-latency query response time, and support for high-concurrency transaction processing and scalability.

Others:

- **openai**: OpenAI display metrics include total requests, response time, number of requests, number of request errors, and token consumption.
- **monitor_jira**: When our applications or systems encounter exceptions, it is usually necessary to handle them in a timely manner to ensure the normal operation of the system. In order to better manage and track exceptional events, we can send these events to Jira to create issues, so that we can track, analyze, and resolve these issues in Jira. By quickly sending exceptional events to Jira to create issues, we provide better capabilities to manage and track exceptional events, thereby ensuring the normal operation of the system. At the same time, this approach can also help us analyze and resolve issues better, improving the stability and reliability of the system.



## August 29, 2023

### Guance Updates

- Scenes > SLO Chart: Added display of downtime.
- Deployment Plan: The mapping rules have added rules only applicable to new member application adaptation. When users enable this option, the mapping rules adaptation only takes effect for newly joined members.

## August 24, 2023

### Guance Updates

- **Billing Items**: 
    - Backup Logs: Added billing items for four archive types: OSS, OBS, AWS S3, and Kafka. Based on the corresponding archive type selected by the user, the amount of forwarded traffic is calculated and summarized, and the account is issued according to the data.
    - APM Traceã€RUM PV Add 30 days/ 60 days data storage strategy.
- Monitoring: 
    - **Mute Rules**: Supported configuring alert mute based on different dimensions.
    - **Monitor**: Supported adding tags to monitors. Add a quick filter column to the monitor list, and make some optimizations to the list.  
    - SLO: Added **Error Burndown** list.
- Logs > Backup Logs: Added **Kafka Message Queue**external storage.
- Explorers/Dashboards: Added **Refresh**.
- Explorers Details Page: Added Bind View entry.

## August 17, 2023

### Guance Updates


- Management: Added **Sensitive Data Scanner** function: Realize information shielding by creating desensitization rules for data.
- Added new billing item: **Sensitive Data Scanning Traffic**: Based on the scanning rules, the raw traffic size of the scanned sensitive data is counted (per GB/day).
- Billing: The consumption analysis section is temporarily removed from the shelves due to renovation and optimization.


## August 10, 2023

### Guance Updates

- New billing items:  
    - Report: Billing is made according to the number of times a scheduled report is sent in a single day in the workspace;  
    - Ingested log: billed according to the original log write traffic reported by the user.  
- Scenes: New feature ****Service Management****: Service Management is a centralized portal for accessing key information of all services. Users can view the performance and business data of different services in the current workspace, as well as all correlation analysis and other information, and quickly locate and solve service-related problems.   
- All the charts support PromQL queries and expression queries.
- Logs: You can directly view context logs on the log details page; you can select the scope of context retrieval.  
- Explorer: Open a data detail page, and support one-click export of the current data as a JSON file.
- APM > Service > Call Map: Added the upstream and downstream call relationship table of the current service, showing the number of requests, average response time, and errors of the one-way service relationship.
- Monitor > Threshold Detection: Added conversion of detection metrics to PromQL queries.
- Infrastructure > Containers: Added Kubernetes Events component on the details page of Pods, Services, Deployments, Nodes, Replica Sets, Cron Jobs and Daemonset.

## January 17, 2023 

### Guance Updates

The English version of Guance has launched.
