---
icon: zy/release-notes
---

# Release Note—2023
---

This document records the updated content description of each online release of our product, including Guance, DataKit, Guance Best Practices and Guance Integration Documentation.

## October 19, 2023

### Guance Updates

- Billing: The billing item [Data Forward](../billing/billing-method/billing-item.md#backup) is now calculated based on the Data Forwarding Rule and the size of the forwarded data.
- Management
    - [SSO Management](../management/sso/index.md#corporate): Support creating multiple SSO IDP configurations and enable/disable individual IDP configurations, and enable SAML mapping.
    - Data Rights Management > [Data Masking](../management/data-authorization.md#data-mask): Support configuring sensitive data masking rules at the role level, and allow using regular expressions for masking. It also supports configuring masking rules for fields under a specific data type, and provides a preview and testing of the masking rules.
- Monitors: Add [Third-party Event Check](../monitoring/monitor/third-party-event-detection.md), which sends abnormal events or records generated by third-party systems to an HTTP server through a specified URL using the POST request method to generate Guance event data.
- Scenes
    - Service Management > Resource Call: Add quantity sorting for the corresponding list, with the default sorting order as descending.
    - Chart Links: Add the ability to pass the start time and end time of the currently selected data point as parameters, with the variables as `#{timestamp.start}` and `#{timestamp.end}` respectively.
    - Chart Alias: Configured based on the legend series.
    - Table Chart: Add Time table. 
- Metrics > Metrics Analysis: Add Group mode for table charts.



### Updates of Guance Deployment Plan

- [Add custom mapping rule configuration](../deployment/space.md#others): After enabling this configuration, the corresponding workspace can have custom mapping rules. The custom mapping rules in the workspace have higher priority than the mapping rules in the management backend.
- [Add query limit](../deployment/space.md#others): Different workspaces for different users have customized limits on the number of queries. This prevents low query performance and affects the user experience due to querying large amounts of data.
- Add the ability to change passwords for local accounts.

### Integration Updates

- [Linking Abnormal Events with PagerDuty](../integrations/pagerduty.md): When our applications or systems encounter abnormalities, it is usually necessary to handle them promptly to ensure the normal operation of the system. In order to better manage and track these abnormal events, we can send these events to PagerDuty to create incidents. This allows us to track, analyze, and resolve these issues in PagerDuty, providing us with better capabilities to manage and track abnormal events, thereby ensuring the normal operation of the system. At the same time, this approach can also help us analyze and resolve problems better, improving the stability and reliability of the system.

## September 26, 2023

### Guance Updates

- Scene > Service Management: A new component called "Upstream/Downstream Topology" has been added for resource calls, allowing users to view the upstream and downstream mapping relationships of the current resource.
- Logs > Data Forward: Data forwarding rule queries now support RUM and APM data.

## September 21, 2023


### Guance Updates

- Logs:
    - Data Forward: Add external storage forwarding rule data query; support enabling/disabling forwarding rules;
    - Bind index: Rizhiyi adds label binding to achieve more granular data range query authorization capabilities.
- Infrastructure > [Custom](../infrastructure/custom/index.md)：
    - The concept of Default Fields has been changed to Required Fields: The reported data must include this property field, otherwise the report will fail;
    - Support adding custom objects to the secondary menu for easier viewing.
    - Custom explorer adds quick filters.
- Scenes:
    - [Regular Report](../scene/report.md): Add three notification methods: DingTalk, WeCom and Feishu;
    - Charts: Add data formats for Timeseries, Pie chart, Bar chart, Histogram, Scatter plot, Bubble chart, Table chart, Treemap, Funnel chart, Top list, Map, and Honeycomb. You can define decimal places and thousands separator.
- Monitors > [Notification Target Management](../monitoring/notify-object.md): Email group type has been discontinued, existing ones are not affected.
- Snapshot: [Share Snapshot](../getting-started/function-details/snapshot.md#share): Add IP whitelist access restriction.
- [Incidents](../exception/issue.md#level): Support custom creation of Level; support enabling/disabling default levels.
- Integration > Extensions: DataFlux Func Automata and RUM Headless now support overseas sites: Oregon, Frankfurt, Singapore.


### Integration Updates

Huawei Cloud:

- [Huawei CCE](../integrations/huawei_cce.md): Guance supports monitoring the running status and service capabilities of various resources in CCE, including Containers, Pods, Services, Deployments, Clusters, Nodes, Replica Sets, Jobs, Cron Jobs, etc. You can install DataKit in Kubernetes through DaemonSet to complete data collection of Kubernetes resources. Finally, monitor the running status of various Kubernetes resources in Guance in real time.

- [Huawei CSS(Elasticsearch)](../integrations/huawei_css_es.md): The core performance metrics of Huawei Cloud Search Service (CSS) for Elasticsearch include query latency, indexing speed, search speed, disk usage, and CPU usage. These are key metrics for evaluating and optimizing Elasticsearch performance.

- [Huawei SYS.AS](../integrations/huawei_SYS.AS.md): The core performance metrics of Huawei SYS.AS include CPU utilization, memory usage, disk I/O, network throughput, and system load. These are key metrics for evaluating and optimizing the performance of the automatic scaling system.

- [Huawei ASM](../integrations/huawei_asm.md): The trace data of Huawei Cloud's ASM is output to Guance for viewing and analysis.

AWS：

- [AWS CloudFront](../integrations/aws_cloudfront.md): The core performance metrics of AWS CloudFront include total requests, data transfer, HTTP error rate, cache hit rate, and latency. These can help users evaluate and optimize the performance of content delivery networks.

- [AWS MediaConvert](../integrations/aws_mediaconvert.md): AWS MediaConvert includes data transfer, video errors, number of jobs, padding, etc.

- [AWS Aurora Serverless V2](../integrations/aws_aurora_serverless_v2.md): AWS Aurora Serverless V2 includes connections, IOPS, queues, read and write latency, network throughput, etc.

- [AWS Redshift](../integrations/aws_redshift.md): The core performance metrics of AWS Redshift include query performance, disk space usage, CPU utilization, database connections, and disk I/O operations. These are key metrics for evaluating and optimizing data warehouse performance.

- [AWS Simple Queue Service](../integrations/aws_sqs.md): The display metrics of AWS Simple Queue Service include the approximate age of the oldest non-deleted message in the queue, the number of messages that are delayed and cannot be immediately read, the number of messages in flight, and the number of messages that can be retrieved from the queue, etc.

- [AWS Timestream](../integrations/aws_timestream.md): The display metrics of AWS Timestream include the number of system errors (internal service errors), the sum of invalid requests for the current AWS region and AWS account, the time and sample count of successful requests, the amount of data stored in memory, and the amount of data stored in magnetic storage, etc.

- [AWS Neptune Cluster](../integrations/aws_neptune_cluster.md): The display metrics of AWS Neptune Cluster include cold start time, execution time, concurrent executions, and memory usage. These metrics reflect the response speed, scalability, and resource utilization of Neptune Cluster functions.



## September 7, 2023

### Guance Updates

- Scenes > Dashboard/Explorer: Add global cross-workspace query configuration.
- Scene > Chart Query: When the time control range is less than or equal to "Last 15 minutes", the automatic alignment time interval will now display "1 second".
- Scene > Service Management:
    - Add multiple inner views binding to the analysis dashboard in the service list; add association and team information;
    - Add resource invocation analysis dashboard;
    - Support saving snapshots.
- Logs > Backup Logs:
    - Officially changed to [Data Forward](../logs/backup.md);
    - Add link and user access data source;
    - The original backup log billing item name has been changed to data forward billing item.
- Logs > Explorer: Add entry to create monitors; support snapshot saving for explorer details page.
- Management:
    - [Global Tags](../management/global-label.md): Add global tags feature for unified tag management;
    - [Field Management](../management/field-management.md): Add aliases and set display columns;
    - [Space Management](../management/space-management.md): Function integration and page optimization;
    - Member Management: Officially changed the definition of member groups to teams;
    - Sensitive Data Scanning: Add scan rule count statistics; add jump link.
- Monitoring:
    - Availability Data Detection: Add probe metrics for detection based on the metric dimension;
    - Mutation, Outlier, Interval Detection: Support selecting all data sources.

### Integration Updates

Alibaba Cloud:

- [aliyun_analyticdb_postgresql](../integrations/aliyun_analyticdb_postgresql.MD): Alibaba Cloud AnalyticDB PostgreSQL metrics display, including CPU, memory, disk, coordinating node, instance query, etc.
- [aliyun_clickhouse_community](../integrations/aliyun_clickhouse_community.MD): Alibaba Cloud ClickHouse metrics display, including service status, log flow, operation count, overall QPS, etc.
- [aliyun_kafka](../integrations/aliyun_kafka.MD): Alibaba Cloud `Kafka` includes message throughput, latency, concurrent connections, and reliability, which reflect the performance and reliability of Kafka in handling large-scale message transmission and real-time data streams.
- [aliyun_lindorm](../integrations/aliyun_lindorm.MD): Includes high throughput, low latency data read and write capabilities, support for high-concurrency transaction processing, as well as strong consistency and high reliability data storage and query services.
- [aliyun_polardb_1.0](../integrations/aliyun_polardb_1.0.MD): Alibaba Cloud PolarDB distributed 1.0 display metrics include CPU utilization, memory utilization, network bandwidth, and disk IOPS.
- [aliyun_polardb_2.0](../integrations/aliyun_polardb_2.0.MD): Alibaba Cloud PolarDB distributed 2.0 display metrics for compute and storage nodes, including CPU utilization, connection utilization, disk usage, disk utilization, memory utilization, network bandwidth, etc.
- [aliyun_rds_postgresql](../integrations/aliyun_rds_postgresql.MD): Alibaba Cloud RDS PostgreSQL metrics display, including CPU usage, memory usage, etc.
- [aliyun_rocketmq5](../integrations/aliyun_rocketmq5.MD): Alibaba Cloud RocketMQ 5.0 display metrics include message throughput, latency, reliability, and horizontal scalability.

AWS:

- [aws_dynamodb_DAX](../integrations/aws_dynamodb_DAX.MD): AWS DynamoDB DAX display metrics include CPU usage of nodes or clusters, bytes received or sent on all network interfaces, number of data packets, etc., which reflect the operating status of DynamoDB DAX.
- [aws_memorydb](../integrations/aws_memorydb.MD): AWS MemoryDB core performance metrics include low-latency memory read and write capabilities, high-concurrency transaction processing capabilities, and scalable storage capacity and throughput.

Huawei Cloud:

- [huawei_functiongraph](../integrations/huawei_FunctionGraph.MD): Huawei FunctionGraph display metrics include number of invocations, number of errors, number of rejections, concurrency, number of reserved instances, runtime (including maximum runtime, minimum runtime, average runtime), etc., which reflect the running status of FunctionGraph functions.
- [huawei_kafka](../integrations/huawei_kafka.MD): Includes message throughput, latency, concurrent connections, and reliability, which reflect the performance and reliability of Kafka in handling large-scale message transmission and real-time data streams.
- [huaweiyun_SYS_DDMS](../integrations/huaweiyun_SYS_DDMS.MD): 'Huawei Cloud SYS.DDMS monitoring view display metrics include message throughput, latency, concurrent connections, and reliability, which reflect the performance and reliability of DDMS in handling large-scale message transmission and real-time data streams.

Tencent Cloud:

- [tencent_keewidb](../integrations/tencent_keewidb.MD): Tencent Cloud KeeWiDB metrics display, including connections, requests, cache, keys, slow queries, etc.
- [tencent_mariadb](../integrations/tencent_mariadb.MD): Includes high-performance read and write capabilities, low-latency query response time, and support for high-concurrency transaction processing and scalability.
- [tencent_memcached](../integrations/tencent_memcached.MD): Includes high-speed memory read and write capabilities, low-latency data access time, and high-concurrency access processing capabilities.
- [tencent_tdsql_c_mysql](../integrations/tencent_tdsql_c_mysql.MD): Includes high-throughput read and write capabilities, low-latency query response time, and support for high-concurrency transaction processing and scalability.

Others:

- [openai](../integrations/openai.MD): OpenAI display metrics include total requests, response time, number of requests, number of request errors, and token consumption.
- [monitor_jira](../integrations/monitor_jira.MD): When our applications or systems encounter exceptions, it is usually necessary to handle them in a timely manner to ensure the normal operation of the system. In order to better manage and track exceptional events, we can send these events to Jira to create issues, so that we can track, analyze, and resolve these issues in Jira. By quickly sending exceptional events to Jira to create issues, we provide better capabilities to manage and track exceptional events, thereby ensuring the normal operation of the system. At the same time, this approach can also help us analyze and resolve issues better, improving the stability and reliability of the system.



## August 29, 2023

### Guance Updates

- Scenes > SLO Chart: Add display of downtime.
- Deployment Plan: The mapping rules have added rules only applicable to new member application adaptation. When users enable this option, the mapping rules adaptation only takes effect for newly joined members.

## August 24, 2023

### Guance Updates

- [Billing Items](../billing/billing-method/index.md)：
    - Backup Logs: Add billing items for four archive types: OSS, OBS, AWS S3, and Kafka. Based on the corresponding archive type selected by the user, the amount of forwarded traffic is calculated and summarized, and the account is issued according to the data.
    - APM Trace、RUM PV Add 30 days/ 60 days data storage strategy.
- Monitoring: 
    - [Mute Rules](../monitoring/silent-management.md): Support configuring alarm mute based on different dimensions.
    - [Monitor](../monitoring/monitor/index.md#list): Support adding tags to monitors. Add a quick filter column to the monitor list, and make some optimizations to the list.  
    - SLO: Add **Error Burndown** list.
- Logs > Backup Logs：Add [Kafka Message Queue](../logs/backup.md#kafka)external storage.
- Explorers/Dashboards: Add [Refresh](../getting-started/function-details/explorer-search.md#refresh).
- Explorers Details Page: Add Bind View entry.

## August 17, 2023

### Guance Updates


- Management: Add [Sensitive Data Scanner](../management/data-scanner.md) function: Realize information shielding by creating desensitization rules for data.
- Add new billing item: [Sensitive Data Scanning Traffic](../billing/billing-method/index.md#scanned-data): Based on the scanning rules, the raw traffic size of the scanned sensitive data is counted (per GB/day).
- Billing: The consumption analysis section is temporarily removed from the shelves due to renovation and optimization.


## August 10, 2023

### Guance Updates

- New billing items:  
    - Report: Billing is made according to the number of times a scheduled report is sent in a single day in the workspace;  
    - Ingested log: billed according to the original log write traffic reported by the user.  
- Scenes: New feature **[Service Management](../scene/service-management.md)**: Service Management is a centralized portal for accessing key information of all services. Users can view the performance and business data of different services in the current workspace, as well as all correlation analysis and other information, and quickly locate and solve service-related problems.   
- All the charts support PromQL queries and expression queries.
- Logs: You can directly view context logs on the log details page; you can select the scope of context retrieval.  
- Explorer: Open a data detail page, and support one-click export of the current data as a JSON file.
- APM > Service > Call Map: Add the upstream and downstream call relationship table of the current service, showing the number of requests, average response time, and errors of the one-way service relationship.
- Monitor > Threshold Detection: Add conversion of detection metrics to PromQL queries.
- Infrastructure > Containers: Add Kubernetes Events component on the details page of Pods, Services, Deployments, Nodes, Replica Sets, Cron Jobs and Daemonset.

## January 17, 2023 

### Guance Updates

The English version of Guance has launched.
